back at the farm John Bradshaw has asked
the farmer to give his cats a rare treat
a rabbit they haven't had to catch
themselves first at the table is black
and ginger the mother of two week old
kittens she takes control of the rabbit
with four young kittens to feed she has
the greatest need to eat black and
ginger even fend off a much bigger cat
with ease this enthusiasm for fresh meat
is a key survival instinct for every
member of the cat family because while
lots of animals eat meat cats are one of
only a handful of mammals that must eat
it to survive for a start they got quite
short guts that don't digest plant
protein very well but also they need
some amino acids that we don't need the
key one is one called taurine which is
essential for their health now we make
as much torreón as we need to in our own
bodies cats can't do that
and once so one of the things they need
to get from animal protein from meat is
that essential amino acid Torrey as well
as taurine there are 18 other nutrients
cats have to get from meats that people
and even dogs can get from vegetables
the carcass will give them all sorts of
nutrients that will give them calcium
from the way they're crunching up the
bones and it will also give them water
cats notorious for not drinking very
much and in fact evolutionarily speaking
they would have got most of their water
from the flesh that they ate and
wouldn't need to drink at all our cats
wild ancestors could survive only on
fresh meat
they even evolved more efficient kidneys
so they could get all the water they
needed from the prey they called
this wild hunting heritage is in every
cat from the largest lion to the
smallest moggy but our pet cats could be
on the verge of an evolutionary change
it's only been 30 or 40 years since we
fully understood what the cat's
nutritional needs are before that they
had to go hunting in order to get a
balanced diet and continue to breed so
in the next 50 or a hundred years who
knows what might happen they might very
well change and need to hunt a lot less
simply because we're now able to provide
them with a balanced diet it's possible
that the hunting drive our cats share
with their big cat cousins could fade
it's just one way living with us in our
21st century world could be taming our
cats wild side